> To do list:
> -	[ ] Spring Aware Interfaces	

### What is Spring Framework?
- Powerful open source
- Loosely coupled
- Light weight
- Java based application framework for developing enterprise applications

This framework is also called as the _**"framework of frameworks"**_ as spring provides support to various other important frameworks like JSF, Hibernate, Struts, EJB, etc.

### What are the advantages of spring framework?

<details>
	<summary><b>Predefined Templates</b></summary>
		<ul>
			<li>Spring framework provides templates for JDBC, Hibernate, JPA, JMS, Transactions, etc. Spring templates are a way to eliminate boilerplate code so that our only concern is to execute <b>business logic</b>. <hr>
			</li>
			<li>Let's take the example of <b>JdbcTemplate</b>, you don't need to write the code for <i>exception handling, creating connection, creating statement, committing transaction, closing connection, etc</i>. You need to write the code of <i>executing query</i> only. Thus, it saves a lot of JDBC code.
				<a href="https://dzone.com/tutorials/java/spring/spring-jdbc-tutorial-1.html">Spring JDBC Tutorial</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Loose Coupling</b></summary>
	<ul>
		<li>The Spring applications are loosely coupled because of IoC and DI.<br><a href="https://mkyong.com/spring/spring-loosely-coupled-example/">Spring loosely coupled example</a></li>
	</ul>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Easy to test</b></summary>
	<p>The Dependency Injection makes easier to test the application. The EJB or Struts application require server to run the application but Spring framework doesn't require server.</p>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Lightweight</b></summary>
	<p></p>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Fast Development</b></summary>
	<ul>
		<li>The Dependency Injection feature of Spring Framework and it support to various frameworks makes the easy development of JavaEE application.</li>
	</ul>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Powerful abstraction</b></summary>
	<p>It provides powerful abstraction to JavaEE specifications such as JMS, JDBC, JPA and JTA.</p>
</details>

<details>
	<summary><b>Declarative support</b></summary>
	<p> It provides declarative support for caching, validation, transactions and formatting.</p>
</details>

<hr>

-   **Lightweight:** there is a slight overhead of using the framework in development
-   **Inversion of Control (IoC):** Spring container takes care of wiring dependencies of various objects, instead of creating or looking for dependent objects
-   **Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP):** Spring supports AOP to separate business logic from system services
-   **IoC container:** it manages Spring Bean life cycle and project specific configurations
-   **MVC framework:** that is used to create web applications or RESTful web services, capable of returning XML/JSON responses
-   **Transaction management:** reduces the amount of boiler-plate code in JDBC operations, file uploading, etc., either by using Java annotations or by Spring Bean XML configuration file
-   **Exception Handling:** Spring provides a convenient API for translating technology-specific exceptions into unchecked exceptions